1.
Problem: Fruit Jar Problem.
You have 3 jars that are all mislabeled. One jar contains Apples, another contains Oranges and the third jar
contains a mixture of both Apples and Oranges. You are allowed to pick as many fruits as you want from each jar
to fix the labels on the jars. What is the minimum number of fruits that you have to pick and from which jars
to correctly label them?

Solution: Just once. Let the mislabeled jars be O, A , O+A. Since all jars are mislabeled, the correct label of O+A
should be either O or A. Pick one item from O+A.
Case 1: Picked item is O. Then the correct label of O+A is O. Now A could have been O or O+A. But since O+A is O,
therefore A is O+A. Hence O is A.
Case 2. Picked item is O. Similar process can be followed.


2.
Problem: A Man with Burning Ropes.
A man has two ropes of varying thickness, those two ropes are not identical, they are not the same density nor the
same length nor the same width. Each rope burns in 60 minutes. How can he measure 45 minutes using only these two
ropes. He can’t cut the one rope in half because the ropes are non-homogeneous and he can’t be sure how long it
will burn.

Solution: Light both ends of rope AA, and one end of rope BB. When rope AA is burnt out, after 30 minutes, light
the other end of rope BB. Rope BB will be burnt out after a further 15 minutes.


3.
Problem: 12 Identical Balls Problem.
You are give 12 identical looking balls. One of them is fake (could be heavier or lighter) than the rest of the 11
(all the others weight exactly the same). You a provided with a simple mechanical balance and you are restricted to
only 3 uses. Find the fake ball.

Solution: First we weigh {1,2,3,4} on the left and {5,6,7,8} on the right. There are three scenarios which can
arise from this:
a) If they balance: Then we know 9, 10, 11 or 12 is fake.

b) If {1,2,3,4} is heavier:

c) If {5,6,7,8} is heavier : Its same as second case.


4.
Problem: There are n balls where only one is defective and weighs lighter. Find minimum
no of comparisons to find out the defective ball.

Solution: Min comparisons = log3(n).

5.
Problem: There is a river and gold has to be transported from one side to the other.
The boat person is a thief and can steal anything except the locked box. We are given
lock and key pairs on either side. Find a way to move gold to the other end.

Solution: Put the gold in the box and lock the box. Tell the person at other end to put
his own lock and send back the box. Remove the previous lock and send back the box.
Remove the other lock too and get the gold.
